---
difficulty: EASY
date_started: 2025-07-16
last_reviewed: 2025-07-16
Time Spent: 
---

TAGS CAN BE - - `#easy`, `#medium`, `#hard` `#revisit`, `#wrong`, `#must-do`, `#mistake
**TAGS**: #dsaproblem #easy 
**CONCEPT:** [[]]


## Problem Statement
Statement-There are a total of `numCourses` courses you have to take, labeled from `0` to `numCourses - 1`. You are given an array `prerequisites` where `prerequisites[i] = [ai, bi]` indicates that you **must** take course `bi` first if you want to take course `ai`.

- For example, the pair `[0, 1]`, indicates that to take course `0` you have to first take course `1`.

Return `true` if you can finish all courses. Otherwise, return `false`.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** numCourses = 2, prerequisites = [[1,0]]
**Output:** true
**Explanation:** There are a total of 2 courses to take. 
To take course 1 you should have finished course 0. So it is possible.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** numCourses = 2, prerequisites = [[1,0],[0,1]]
**Output:** false
**Explanation:** There are a total of 2 courses to take. 
To take course 1 you should have finished course 0, and to take course 0 you should also have finished course 1. So it is impossible.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= numCourses <= 2000`
- `0 <= prerequisites.length <= 5000`
- `prerequisites[i].length == 2`
- `0 <= ai, bi < numCourses`
- All the pairs prerequisites[i] are **unique**.
link-https://leetcode.com/problems/course-schedule/description/

@@
## Approach / Thought Process
## 🧠 Thought Process

1. **What was asked?**
   - [ ] Identify key input/output
   - [ ] What type of problem is it?

2. **What did I think at first?**
AGAR KOI CYCLE NAHI HAI TOH MTLB TOPO SORT HO SAKTA HAI KOI!!


3. **Other approaches I considered?**



4. **Why I chose this approach?**


   
### BRUTE FORCE:
TC:
```c++
class Solution {
public:
    bool dfs(vector<int>&vis,vector<int>&pathvis,vector<vector<int>>&adj,int start){
        vis[start]=1;
        pathvis[start]=1;

        for(auto it : adj[start]){
            if(!vis[it]){
                if(dfs(vis,pathvis,adj,it)){
                    return true;
                }
            }else if (pathvis[it]){
                return true;
            }
        }
        pathvis[start]=0;
        return false;
    }



    bool canFinish(int V, vector<vector<int>>& p) {
         vector<vector<int>>adj(V+1);
        for(auto it : p){
            adj[it[1]].push_back(it[0]);
        }
        vector<int>vis(V+1,0);
        vector<int>pathvis(V+1,0);

        for(int i =1;i<=V;i++){
            if(!vis[i]){
                if(dfs(vis,pathvis,adj,i)){
                    return false;
                }
            }
        }
        return true;    
    }
};
```

### OPTMISED VERSION 
TC:
```c++

```

### ANOTHER APPROACH IF NEEDED
TC:
```c++

```


3. **Chosen Solution**:
   - Describe the approach you settled on and why.
   - IF THERE IS ANY FURTHER OPTIMISATION

### MOST EFFICIENT APPROACH
```cpp
// C++ solution goes here
```

## Complexity Analysis
| Complexity Type  | Value   |     |
| ---------------- | ------- | --- |
| Time Complexity  | **O()** |     |
| Space Complexity | **O()** |     |

## Edge Cases
List any edge cases you considered, such as:
- Empty input
- Very large input
- Special cases (e.g., minimum/maximum values)

## Mistakes / Lessons Learned
Document any mistakes you made while solving, along with the solutions.
Write down any new techniques or patterns that you discovered while working on this problem.


## Similar Problems or Ideas about extended problems



## Additional Resources
- **Discussion Links**: Links to relevant discussions or solutions that provide additional insights.
- **Reference Links**: Any articles, videos, or other resources that helped you understand the problem better.