---
difficulty: MEDIUM
date_started: 2025-01-10
last_reviewed: 
Time Spent: 
---
TAGS CAN BE - revise,important,easy
**TAGS**:
**CONCEPT:** [](.md)

PROBLEM LINK:https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/children-sum-parent/1
## Problem Statement
 Copy the problem statement here for quick reference.
 Given a binary tree having **n** nodes. Check whether all of its nodes have a value equal to the sum of their child nodes. Return 1 if all the nodes in the tree satisfy the given properties, else it returns 0. For every node, the data value must be equal to the sum of the data values in the left and right children. Consider the data value 0 for a NULL child. Also, leaves are considered to follow the property.

**Examples:**

**Input:  
**Binary tree
       35
      /  \
     20   15
    / \   / \
   15  5 10  5

**Output:** 1
**Explanation:** Here, every node is sum of its left and right child.

**Input:  
**Binary tree
       1
     /   \
    4         3
   /  
  5    
**Output:** 0
**Explanation:** Here, 1 is the root node and 4, 3 are its child nodes. 4 + 3 = 7 which is not equal to the value of root node. Hence, this tree does not satisfy the given condition.

**Input:**  
Binary tree
       10
      /  \
     4    6
    / \  / \
   1   3 2  4
  
**Output:** 1  
**Explanation:**   
Here, every node is a sum of its left and right child.

**Constraints:**  
1 <= number of nodes <= 105  
0 <= node->data <= 105

## Approach / Thought Process
1. **Initial Thoughts**: 
   - Write down your initial understanding and ideas for solving this problem.
   - EASY HI THA RECURSION SE SETTING KARLI

2. **Approach Options**:
   - Describe any alternative approaches you considered.
   
### BRUTE FORCE:
TC:
```c++
bool check(Node *root){
    if(!root) return true;
    if(root->left == NULL && root->right == NULL) return true;
    
    int pd=root->data;
    int lcd = (root->left) ? root->left->data : 0;
    int rcd = (root->right) ? root->right->data : 0;
    if(pd != lcd+rcd){
        return false;
    }
    
    return check(root->left)&& check(root->right);
    
    }
    int isSumProperty(Node *root)
    {
     // Add your code here
     if(check(root)) return 1;
     return 0;
    }
```

### OPTMISED VERSION 
TC:
```c++

```

### ANOTHER APPROACH IF NEEDED
TC:
```c++

```


3. **Chosen Solution**:
   - Describe the approach you settled on and why.
   - IF THERE IS ANY FURTHER OPTIMISATION

### MOST EFFICIENT APPROACH
```cpp
// C++ solution goes here
```

## Complexity Analysis
- **Time Complexity**: 
- **Space Complexity**: 

## Edge Cases
List any edge cases you considered, such as:
- Empty input
- Very large input
- Special cases (e.g., minimum/maximum values)

## Mistakes / Lessons Learned
Document any mistakes you made while solving, along with the solutions.
Write down any new techniques or patterns that you discovered while working on this problem.


## Similar Problems or Ideas about extended problems

THIS QUESTION IS NOT SOME WEIRD PROBELM!




